Observers find it difficult
even to get
near the nimble mountain goat.
What accounts for this?
Their hooves
are designed with two toes
that can be spread wide apart.
This feature enables
mountain goats to run, jump,
and feed between narrow ledges.
They can maintain their footing
on a near-vertical incline.
Researchers have tried
to apply these design features
to advanced footwear,
with only limited success.
A horse can gallop at speeds
up to 50 kilometers
[or 30 miles] per hour.
Even more impressive
is how efficiently
the horse expends energy.
The secret is in its legs.
Like a spring,
a horse’s leg absorbs energy.
As its leg leaves the ground,
that energy is released.
Specialized muscles
act as shock absorbers.
Engineers are trying
to imitate this design
but are finding it a challenge.
During an eagle’s flight,
the feathers
on the tips of its wings
are practically vertical.
This configuration
gives maximum lift
with minimum wing length.
Engineers have studied
such soaring birds as eagles
with a view to designing
more efficient aircraft.
The introduction
of modified wing design
that includes winglets
has improved aircraft performance
by as much as 15 percent.
Planes can now fly farther
and carry more
while saving fuel.
In the decade following
the introduction of upturned wingtips,
airlines worldwide
saved 7,600 million liters
[or 2 billion gallons] of jet fuel.
But the eagle’s amazing design
is not limited to flight.
As the eagle
descends upon its prey,
its eyes continuously adjust
to maintain sharp focus
throughout the approach.
What man-made camera
comes even close
to this ability
of rapid refocus?
The Behemoth mentioned in Job
is generally identified
as the hippopotamus.
A full-grown hippo
may be as large as 15 feet
[or 4 to 5 meters] long
and weigh around 8,000 pounds
[or 3,600 kilograms].
Its bones,
particularly the vertebrae,
form a strong, rigid structure.
Its ribs and thick hide protect it
as it navigates such areas
as rocky river beds.
You don’t have to have
bones like a hippo
to appreciate their strength.
Bone is an essential part
of countless living organisms.
Researchers say that bones are constructed
in exactly the same way
that reinforced concrete
is constructed.
The steel of reinforced concrete
provides the tensile strength,
while the cement, sand, and rock
provide the compressional strength.
However,
the compressional strength of bone
is greater than that of even
the best reinforced concrete.
Bone is superior to concrete
in many other ways.
It responds to hormones
that affect its growth and development
and is even able to repair itself.
Also, like muscle,
it slowly grows stronger
as the load on it increases.
Leviathan,
likely the crocodile,
has an enormously
powerful bite.
Some have a bite
nearly three times more powerful
than that of a lion.
Yet, the crocodile’s jaw
is also more sensitive
than the human fingertip.
It is covered
with thousands of sense organs
that come out of holes
in the skull.
This design allows a mother
to pick up her babies
and gently carry them in her mouth.
Without a doubt,
God’s “invisible qualities
are clearly seen” in the things he made.
We can also learn much
from the other animal creation
mentioned in Job:
the wild bull,
the stork,
and the ostrich.
Why not study these animals
during family worship
and see what more can be learned
about Jehovah’s qualities?